# Tutorial: Routing

| REFERENCES                               |
| ---------------------------------------- |
| [1]: https://angular.io/tutorial/toh-pt5 "Routing" |

------

There are new requirements for the Tour of Heroes app:

- Add a *Dashboard* view.
- Add the ability to navigate between the *Heroes* and *Dashboard* views.
- When users click a hero name in either view, navigate to a detail view of the selected hero.
- When users click a *deep link* in an email, open the detail view for a particular hero.

When you’re done, users will be able to navigate the app like this:



// IMAGE



#### Add the *AppRoutingModule*

An Angular best practice is to load and configure the router in a separate, top-level module that is dedicated to routing and imported by the root `AppModule`.

By convention, the module class name is `AppRoutingModule` and it belongs in the `app-routing.module.ts` in the `src/app` folder.

Use the CLI to generate it.

```bash
$ ng g module app-routing --flat --module=app
```

* `--flat` puts the file in `src/app` instead of its own folder.
* `--module=app` tells the CLI to register it in the `imports` array of the `AppModule`.

The generated file looks like this:

###### src/app/app-routing.module.ts

```typescript
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { CommonModule } from '@angular/common';

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    CommonModule
  ],
  declarations: []
})

export class AppRoutingModule { }
```

You generally don't declare components in a routing module so you can delete the `@NgModule.declarations` array and delete `CommonModule`references too.

You'll configure the router with `Routes` in the `RouterModule` so import those two symbols from the `@angular/router` library.

Add an `@NgModule.exports` array with `RouterModule` in it. Exporting `RouterModule` makes router directives available for use in the `AppModule` components that will need them.

`AppRoutingModule` looks like this now:

###### src/app/app-routing.module.t

```typescript
import { NgModule }             from '@angular/core';
import { RouterModule, Routes } from '@angular/router';

@NgModule({
  exports: [ RouterModule ]
})

export class AppRoutingModule {}
```

