# Angular Material Typography Guide

| REFERENCES                               |
| ---------------------------------------- |
| [1]: https://material.angular.io/guide/typography "Using Angular Material's Typography" |

------

### What is typography?

Typography is a way of arranging type to make text legible, readable, and appealing when displayed. Angular Material's typography is based on the guidelines from the [Material Design spec](https://material.io/guidelines/style/typography.html) and is arranged into typography levels. Each level has a `font-size`, `line-height` and `font-weight`. The available levels are:

- `display-4`, `display-3`, `display-2` and `display-1` - Large, one-off headers, usually at the top of the page (e.g. a hero header).
- `headline` - Section heading corresponding to the `<h1>` tag.
- `title` - Section heading corresponding to the `<h2>` tag.
- `subheading-2` - Section heading corresponding to the `<h3>` tag.
- `subheading-1` - Section heading corresponding to the `<h4>` tag.
- `body-1` - Base body text.
- `body-2` - Bolder body text.
- `caption` - Smaller body and hint text.
- `button` - Buttons and anchors.
- `input` - Form input fields.

The typography levels are collected into a typography config which is used to generate the CSS.

###  Usage

To get started, you first include the `Roboto` font with the 300, 400 and 500 weights. You can host it yourself or include it from [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/):

```html
<head>
  ...
  
  <link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Roboto:300,400,500" rel="stylesheet">
  
  ...
</head>
```

Now you can add the appropriate CSS classes to the elements that you want to style:

```html
<h1 class="mat-display-1">Jackdaws love my big sphinx of quartz.</h1>
<h2 class="mat-h2">The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.</h2>
```

By default, Angular Material doesn't apply any global CSS. To apply the library's typographic styles more broadly, you can take advantage of the `mat-typography` CSS class. This class will style all descendant native elements.

```html
<!-- By default, Angular Material applies no global styles to native elements. -->
<h1>This header is unstyled</h1>

<!-- Applying the mat-tyography class adds styles for native elements. -->
<section class="mat-typography">
  <h1>This header will be styled</h1>
</section>
```

