# Tutorial: Angular Material Navbar

| REFERENCES                               |
| ---------------------------------------- |
| [1]: https://material.angular.io/guide/theming "Theming your Angular Material app" |
| [2]: https://material.angular.io/guide/theming-your-components "Theming your custom components" |
| [3]: https://material.angular.io/guide/typography " Angular Material typography" |
| [4]: https://blog.thoughtram.io/angular/2017/05/23/custom-themes-with-angular-material.html "CUSTOM THEMES WITH ANGULAR MATERIAL" |

------

### What is a theme?

A **theme** is the set of colors that will be applied to the Angular Material components. The library's approach to theming is based on the guidance from the [Material Design spec](https://material.google.com/style/color.html#color-color-palette).

In Angular Material, a theme is created by composing multiple palettes. In particular, a theme consists of:

- A primary palette: colors most widely used across all screens and components.
- An accent palette: colors used for the floating action button and interactive elements.
- A warn palette: colors used to convey error state.
- A foreground palette: colors for text and icons.
- A background palette: colors used for element backgrounds.

In Angular Material, all theme styles are generated *statically* at build-time so that your app doesn't have to spend cycles generating theme styles on startup.

### Using a pre-built theme

Angular Material comes prepackaged with several pre-built theme css files. These theme files also include all of the styles for core (styles common to all components), so you only have to include a single css file for Angular Material in your app.

You can include a theme file directly into your application from `@angular/material/prebuilt-themes`

Available pre-built themes:

- `deeppurple-amber.css`
- `indigo-pink.css`
- `pink-bluegrey.css`
- `purple-green.css`

If you're using Angular CLI, this is as simple as including one line in your `styles.css` file:

```css
@import '~@angular/material/prebuilt-themes/deeppurple-amber.css';
```

Alternatively, you can just reference the file directly. This would look something like:

```html
<link href="node_modules/@angular/material/prebuilt-themes/indigo-pink.css" rel="stylesheet">
```

The actual path will depend on your server setup.

You can also concatenate the file with the rest of your application's css.

Finally, if your app's content **is not** placed inside of a `mat-sidenav-container` element, you need to add the `mat-app-background` class to your wrapper element (for example the `body`). This ensures that the proper theme background is applied to your page.

### Defining a custom theme

When you want more customization than a pre-built theme offers, you can create your own theme file.

A custom theme file does two things:

1. Imports the `mat-core()` sass mixin. This includes all common styles that are used by multiple components. **This should only be included once in your application.** If this mixin is included multiple times, your application will end up with multiple copies of these common styles.
2. Defines a **theme** data structure as the composition of multiple palettes. This object can be created with either the `mat-light-theme` function or the `mat-dark-theme` function. The output of this function is then passed to the `angular-material-theme` mixin, which will output all of the corresponding styles for the theme.





```bash
$ node-sass src/unicorn-app-theme.scss src/assets/unicorn-app-theme.css
```