# Tutorial: Angular Material Navbar

| REFERENCES                               |
| ---------------------------------------- |
| [1]: https://material.angular.io/guide/theming "Theming your Angular Material app" |
| [2]: https://material.angular.io/guide/theming-your-components "Theming your custom components" |
| [3]: https://material.angular.io/guide/typography " Angular Material typography" |
| [4]: https://blog.thoughtram.io/angular/2017/05/23/custom-themes-with-angular-material.html "CUSTOM THEMES WITH ANGULAR MATERIAL" |

------

### What is a theme?

A **theme** is the set of colors that will be applied to the Angular Material components. The library's approach to theming is based on the guidance from the [Material Design spec](https://material.google.com/style/color.html#color-color-palette).

In Angular Material, a theme is created by composing multiple palettes. In particular, a theme consists of:

- A primary palette: colors most widely used across all screens and components.
- An accent palette: colors used for the floating action button and interactive elements.
- A warn palette: colors used to convey error state.
- A foreground palette: colors for text and icons.
- A background palette: colors used for element backgrounds.

In Angular Material, all theme styles are generated *statically* at build-time so that your app doesn't have to spend cycles generating theme styles on startup.

### Using a pre-built theme

Angular Material comes prepackaged with several pre-built theme css files. These theme files also include all of the styles for core (styles common to all components), so you only have to include a single css file for Angular Material in your app.

You can include a theme file directly into your application from `@angular/material/prebuilt-themes`

Available pre-built themes:

- `deeppurple-amber.css`
- `indigo-pink.css`
- `pink-bluegrey.css`
- `purple-green.css`

If you're using Angular CLI, this is as simple as including one line in your `styles.css` file:

```css
@import '~@angular/material/prebuilt-themes/deeppurple-amber.css';
```

Alternatively, you can just reference the file directly. This would look something like:

```html
<link href="node_modules/@angular/material/prebuilt-themes/indigo-pink.css" rel="stylesheet">
```

The actual path will depend on your server setup.

You can also concatenate the file with the rest of your application's css.

Finally, if your app's content **is not** placed inside of a `mat-sidenav-container` element, you need to add the `mat-app-background` class to your wrapper element (for example the `body`). This ensures that the proper theme background is applied to your page.

### Defining a custom theme

When you want more customization than a pre-built theme offers, you can create your own theme file.

A custom theme file does two things:

1. Imports the `mat-core()` sass mixin. This includes all common styles that are used by multiple components. **This should only be included once in your application.** If this mixin is included multiple times, your application will end up with multiple copies of these common styles.
2. Defines a **theme** data structure as the composition of multiple palettes. This object can be created with either the `mat-light-theme` function or the `mat-dark-theme` function. The output of this function is then passed to the `angular-material-theme` mixin, which will output all of the corresponding styles for the theme.




#### Create a Sass CSS file

###### src/app-theme.scss

```scss
@import '../node_modules/@angular/material/theming';
// Plus imports for other components in your app.

// Include the common styles for Angular Material. We include this here so that you only
// have to load a single css file for Angular Material in your app.
// Be sure that you only ever include this mixin once!
@include mat-core();

// Define the palettes for your theme using the Material Design palettes available in palette.scss
// (imported above). For each palette, you can optionally specify a default, lighter, and darker
// hue.
$app-primary: mat-palette($mat-red);
$app-accent:  mat-palette($mat-blue-grey, A200, A100, A400);
// The warn palette is optional (defaults to red).
$app-warn:    mat-palette($mat-pink);

// Create the theme object (a Sass map containing all of the palettes).
$app-theme: mat-light-theme($app-primary, $app-accent, $app-warn);

// Include theme styles for core and each component used in your app.
// Alternatively, you can import and @include the theme mixins for each component
// that you are using.
@include angular-material-theme($app-theme);

```

You only need this single Sass file; you do not need to use Sass to style the rest of your app.

If you are using the Angular CLI, support for compiling Sass to css is built-in; you only have to add a new entry to the `"styles"` list in `angular-cli.json` pointing to the theme file (e.g., `app-theme.scss`).

###### angular-cli.json

```json
{
  "$schema": "./node_modules/@angular/cli/lib/config/schema.json",
  "project": {
    "name": "angular-material-heroes"
  },
  "apps": [
    {
      "root": "src",
      "outDir": "dist",
      "assets": [
        "assets",
        "favicon.ico"
      ],
      ...
      "styles": [
        "styles.css",
        "app-theme.scss"
      ],
      ...
    }
  ],
  ...
}
```



If you're not using the Angular CLI, you can use any existing Sass tooling to build the file (such as gulp-sass or grunt-sass). The simplest approach is to use the `node-sass` CLI; you simply run:


```bash
$ node-sass src/unicorn-app-theme.scss src/assets/unicorn-app-theme.css
```
and then include the output file in your index.html.

The theme file **should not** be imported into other SCSS files. This will cause duplicate styles to be written into your CSS output. If you want to consume the theme definition object (e.g., `$app-theme`) in other SCSS files, then the definition of the theme object should be broken into its own file, separate from the inclusion of the `mat-core` and `angular-material-theme` mixins.

The theme file can be concatenated and minified with the rest of the application's css.

Note that if you include the generated theme file in the `styleUrls` of an Angular component, those styles will be subject to that component's [view encapsulation](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/guide/component-styles.html#!#view-encapsulation).