# Tutorial: Master/Detail Components

| REFERENCES                               |
| ---------------------------------------- |
| [1]: https://angular.io/tutorial/toh-pt4 "Services" |

------

The Tour of Heroes `HeroesComponent` is currently getting and displaying fake data.

After the refactoring in this tutorial, `HeroesComponent` will be lean and focused on supporting the view. It will also be easier to unit-test with a mock service.

### Why services?

Components shouldn't fetch or save data directly and they certainly shouldn't knowingly present fake data. They should focus on presenting data and delegate data access to a service.

In this tutorial, you'll create a `HeroService` that all application classes can use to get heroes. Instead of creating that service with `new`, you'll rely on Angular [*dependency injection*](https://angular.io/guide/dependency-injection) to inject it into the `HeroesComponent` constructor.

Services are a great way to share information among classes that *don't know each other*. You'll create a `MessageService` and inject it in two places:

1. in `HeroService` which uses the service to send a message.
2. in `MessagesComponent` which displays that message.

#### Create the *HeroService*

Using the Angular CLI, create a service called `hero`.

```bash
$ ng generate service hero
```

The command generates skeleton `HeroService` class in `src/app/hero.service.ts` The `HeroService` class should look like the below.

##### *@Injectable()* services

Notice that the new service imports the Angular `Injectable` symbol and annotates the class with the `@Injectable()` decorator.

The `@Injectable()` decorator tells Angular that this service *might* itself have injected dependencies. It doesn't have dependencies now but it will soon. Whether it does or it doesn't, it's good practice to keep the decorator.

> The Angular [style guidelines](https://angular.io/guide/styleguide#style-07-04) strongly recommend keeping it and the linter enforces this rule.

#### Get hero data

The `HeroService` could get hero data from anywhere—a web service, local storage, or a mock data source.

Removing data access from components means you can change your mind about the implementation anytime, without touching any components. They don't know how the service works.

The implementation in *this* tutorial will continue to deliver *mock heroes*.

Import the `Hero` and `HEROES`. And Add a `getHeroes` method to return the *mock heroes*.

###### src/app/hero.service.ts

```typescript
import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
import { Hero } from './hero';
import { HEROES } from './mock-heroes';

@Injectable()
export class HeroService {

  constructor() { }

  getHeroes(): Hero[] {
    return HEROES;
  }
}
```



#### Provide the `HeroService`

You must *provide* the `HeroService` in the *dependency injection system* before Angular can *inject* it into the `HeroesComponent`, as you will do below.

There are several ways to provide the `HeroService`: in the `HeroesComponent`, in the `AppComponent`, in the `AppModule`. Each option has pros and cons.

This tutorial chooses to provide it in the `AppModule`.

That's such a popular choice that you could have told the CLI to provide it there automatically by running this command when generating the new service `ng generate service hero --module=app.module`.

Open the `AppModule` class, import the `HeroService`, and add it to the `@NgModule.providers` array.

###### src/app/app.module.ts

```typescript
...

import { HeroService } from './hero.service';

@NgModule({
  ...
  
  providers: [HeroService, MessageService],
  bootstrap: [AppComponent]
})

export class AppModule { }
```

The `providers` array tells Angular to create a single, shared instance of `HeroService` and inject into any class that asks for it.

The `HeroService` is now ready to plug into the `HeroesComponent`.



#### Update `HeroesComponent`

Open the `HeroesComponent` class file.

Delete the `HEROES` import as you won't need that anymore. Import the `HeroService` instead. Replace the the definition of the `heroes` property with a simple declaration.

###### src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts

```typescript
...

import { HeroService } from '../hero.service';

...

export class HeroesComponent implements OnInit {
  heroes: Hero[];

  ...
}
```



#### Inject the `HeroService`

Add a private `heroService` parameter of type `HeroService` to the constructor.

###### src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts

```typescript
import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';
import { Hero } from '../hero';
import { HeroService } from '../hero.service';

...

export class HeroesComponent implements OnInit {
  heroes: Hero[];
  selectedHero: Hero;

  constructor(private heroService: HeroService) { }

  ...
}
```

The parameter simultaneously defines a private `heroService` property and identifies it as a `HeroService` injection site.

When Angular creates a `HeroesComponent`, the [Dependency Injection](https://angular.io/guide/dependency-injection) system sets the `heroService` parameter to the singleton instance of `HeroService`.



#### Add *getHeroes()*

Create a function to retrieve the heroes from the service.

###### src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts

```typescript
...

import { HeroService } from '../hero.service';

...

export class HeroesComponent implements OnInit {
  heroes: Hero[];
  selectedHero: Hero;

  constructor(private heroService: HeroService) { }

  ngOnInit() { }

  getHeroes(): void {
    this.heroes = this.heroService.getHeroes();
  }

  ...
}
```



#### Call it in `ngOnInit`

While you could call `getHeroes()` in the constructor, that's not the best practice.

Reserve the constructor for simple initialization such as wiring constructor parameters to properties. The constructor shouldn't *do anything*. It certainly shouldn't call a function that makes HTTP requests to a remote server as a *real* data service would.

Instead, call `getHeroes()` inside the [*ngOnInit lifecycle hook*](https://angular.io/guide/lifecycle-hooks) and let Angular call `ngOnInit` at an appropriate time *after* constructing a `HeroesComponent` instance.

###### src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts

```typescript
...

import { HeroService } from '../hero.service';

...

export class HeroesComponent implements OnInit {
  heroes: Hero[];
  selectedHero: Hero;

  constructor(private heroService: HeroService) { }

  ngOnInit() {
    this.getHeroes();
  }

  getHeroes(): void {
    this.heroes = this.heroService.getHeroes();
  }

  ...
}

```



#### See it run

After the browser refreshes, the app should run as before, showing a list of heroes and a hero detail view when you click on a hero name.



#### Observable data

The `HeroService.getHeroes()` method has a *synchronous signature*, which implies that the `HeroService` can fetch heroes synchronously. The `HeroesComponent` consumes the `getHeroes()` result as if heroes could be fetched synchronously.

```typescript
this.heroes = this.heroService.getHeroes();
```

This will not work in a real app. You're getting away with it now because the service currently returns *mock heroes*. But soon the app will fetch heroes from a remote server, which is an inherently *asynchronous* operation.

The `HeroService` must wait for the server to respond, `getHeroes()` cannot return immediately with hero data, and the browser will not block while the service waits.

`HeroService.getHeroes()` must have an *asynchronous signature* of some kind.

It can take a callback. It could return a `Promise`. It could return an `Observable`.

In this tutorial, `HeroService.getHeroes()` will return an `Observable` in part because it will eventually use the Angular `HttpClient.get` method to fetch the heroes and [`HttpClient.get()` returns an `Observable`](https://angular.io/guide/http).



#### Observable *HeroService*

`Observable` is one of the key classes in the [RxJS library](http://reactivex.io/rxjs/).

In a [later tutorial on HTTP](https://angular.io/tutorial/toh-pt6), you'll learn that Angular's `HttpClient` methods return RxJS `Observable`s. In this tutorial, you'll simulate getting data from the server with the RxJS `of()` function.

Open the `HeroService` file and import the `Observable` and `of` symbols from RxJS. Replace the `getHeroes` method. 

###### src/app/hero.service.ts

```typescript
import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';
import { Hero } from './hero';
import { HEROES } from './mock-heroes';
import { Observable } from 'rxjs/Observable';
import { of } from 'rxjs/observable/of';

@Injectable()
export class HeroService {

  constructor() { }

  getHeroes(): Observable<Hero[]> {
    return of(HEROES);
  }
}
```

`of(HEROES)` returns an `Observable<Hero[]>` that emits *a single value*, the array of mock heroes.

> In the [HTTP tutorial](https://angular.io/tutorial/toh-pt6), you'll call `HttpClient.get<Hero[]>()` which also returns an `Observable<Hero[]>` that emits *a single value*, an array of heroes from the body of the HTTP response.



#### Subscribe in *HeroesComponent*

The `HeroService.getHeroes` method used to return a `Hero[]`. Now it returns an `Observable<Hero[]>`.

You'll have to adjust to that difference in `HeroesComponent`.

Find the `getHeroes` method and replace it with the following code (shown side-by-side with the previous version for comparison)

###### src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts

```typescript
...

import { HeroService } from '../hero.service';

...

export class HeroesComponent implements OnInit {
  heroes: Hero[];
  selectedHero: Hero;

  constructor(private heroService: HeroService) { }

  ngOnInit() {
    this.getHeroes();
  }

  getHeroes(): void {
    this.heroService.getHeroes()
      .subscribe(heroes => this.heroes = heroes);
  }

  ...
}
```

`Observable.subscribe()` is the critical difference.

The previous version assigns an array of heroes to the component's `heroes` property. The assignment occurs *synchronously*, as if the server could return heroes instantly or the browser could freeze the UI while it waited for the server's response.

That *won't work* when the `HeroService` is actually making requests of a remote server.

The new version waits for the `Observable` to emit the array of heroes— which could happen now or several minutes from now. Then `subscribe` passes the emitted array to the callback, which sets the component's `heroes` property.

This asynchronous approach *will work* when the `HeroService` requests heroes from the server.



### Show messages

In this section you will

- add a `MessagesComponent` that displays app messages at the bottom of the screen.
- create an injectable, app-wide `MessageService` for sending messages to be displayed
- inject `MessageService` into the `HeroService`
- display a message when `HeroService` fetches heroes successfully.




#### Create *MessagesComponent*

Use the CLI to create the `MessagesComponent`.

```bash
$ ng g component messages --module=app.module
```

The CLI creates the component files in the `src/app/messages` folder and declare `MessagesComponent` in `AppModule`.

Modify the `AppComponent` template to display the generated `MessagesComponent`.

###### /src/app/app.component.html

```html
<app-mat-navbar></app-mat-navbar>

<div class="container-fluid">
  ...

  <div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm-4 offset-sm-4">
      <app-messages></app-messages>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

```

You should see the default paragraph from `MessagesComponent` at the bottom of the page.



#### Create the *MessageService*

Use the CLI to create the `MessageService` in `src/app`. The `--module=app` option tells the CLI to [*provide* this service](https://angular.io/tutorial/toh-pt4#provide) in the `AppModule`,

```bash
$ ng g service message --module=app.module
```

Open `MessageService` and replace its contents with the following.

###### /src/app/message.service.ts

```typescript
import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';

@Injectable()
export class MessageService {
  messages: string[] = [];

  add(message: string): void {
    this.messages.push(message);
  }

  clear(): void {
    this.messages = [];
  }
}
```

The service exposes its cache of `messages` and two methods: one to `add()` a message to the cache and another to `clear()` the cache.



#### Inject it into the `HeroService`

Re-open the `HeroService` and import the `MessageService`. 

Modify the constructor with a parameter that declares a private `messageService` property. Angular will inject the singleton `MessageService` into that property when it creates the `HeroService`.

###### /src/app/hero.service.ts

```typescript
...

import { MessageService } from './message.service';

@Injectable()
export class HeroService {

  constructor(private messageService: MessageService) { }

  ...
}
```

> This is a typical "*service-in-service*" scenario: you inject the `MessageService` into the `HeroService` which is injected into the `HeroesComponent`.



#### Send a message from `HeroService`

Modify the `getHeroes` method to send a message when the heroes are fetched.

```typescript
...

import { MessageService } from './message.service';

@Injectable()
export class HeroService {

  constructor(private messageService: MessageService) { }

  getHeroes(): Observable<Hero[]> {
    // TODO: send the message _after_ fetching the heroes
    this.messageService.add('HeroService: fetched heroes');

    return of(HEROES);
  }
}

```



#### Display the message from `HeroService`

The `MessagesComponent` should display all messages, including the message sent by the `HeroService` when it fetches heroes.

Open `MessagesComponent` and import the `MessageService`.

Modify the constructor with a parameter that declares a **public** `messageService` property. Angular will inject the singleton `MessageService` into that property when it creates the `HeroService`.

###### /src/app/messages/messages.component.ts

```typescript
import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';
import { MessageService } from '../message.service';

...

export class MessagesComponent implements OnInit {

  constructor(public messageService: MessageService) { }

  ngOnInit() { }
}
```

The `messageService` property **must be public** because you're about to bind to it in the template.

> Angular only binds to *public* component properties.



#### Bind to the *MessageService*

Replace the CLI-generated `MessagesComponent` template with the following.

###### src/app/messages/messages.component.html

```html
<div *ngIf="messageService.messages.length">

  <h2>Messages</h2>
  <button class="clear"
          (click)="messageService.clear()">clear</button>
  <div *ngFor='let message of messageService.messages'> {{message}} </div>

</div>
```

This template binds directly to the component's `messageService`.

- The `*ngIf` only displays the messages area if there are messages to show.


- An `*ngFor` presents the list of messages in repeated `<div>` elements.


- An Angular [event binding](https://angular.io/guide/template-syntax#event-binding) binds the button's click event to `MessageService.clear()`.

The browser refreshes and the page displays the list of heroes. Scroll to the bottom to see the message from the `HeroService` in the message area. Click the "clear" button and the message area disappears.

---

## Summary

- You refactored data access to the `HeroService` class.
- You *provided* the `HeroService` in the root `AppModule` so that it can be injected anywhere.
- You used [Angular Dependency Injection](https://angular.io/guide/dependency-injection) to inject it into a component.
- You gave the `HeroService` *get data* method an asynchronous signature.
- You discovered `Observable` and the RxJS *Observable* library.
- You used RxJS `of()` to return an *Observable* of mock heroes (`Observable<Hero[]>`).
- The component's `ngOnInit` lifecycle hook calls the `HeroService` method, not the constructor.
- You created a `MessageService` for loosely-coupled communication between classes.
- The `HeroService` injected into a component is created with another injected service, `MessageService`.