# Tutorial: Angular Material Snackbar

| REFERENCES                               |
| ---------------------------------------- |
| [1]: https://material.angular.io/components/snack-bar/overview "Sncakbar" |

------

## Refactoring with Angular Material `MatSnackBar`

Our project currently uses the Hero Service to retrieve data from a source. After it retrieves that data, it uses the *service in service* technique with the Message Service to retrieve a message from the MessageComponent. This however, can be improved both visually and with less code. To do this, we will use the Angular Material Snackbar to display the same message.



## Introducing the `MatSnackBar`

`MatSnackBar` is a service for displaying snack-bar notifications.

##### Opening a snack-bar

A snack-bar can contain either a string message or a given component.

```typescript
// Simple message.
let snackBarRef = snackBar.open('Message archived');

// Simple message with an action.
let snackBarRef = snackBar.open('Message archived', 'Undo');

// Load the given component into the snack-bar.
let snackBarRef = snackbar.openFromComponent(MessageArchivedComponent);

```

In either case, a `MatSnackBarRef` is returned. This can be used to dismiss the snack-bar or to receive notification of when the snack-bar is dismissed. For simple messages with an action, the`MatSnackBarRef` exposes an observable for when the action is triggered. If you want to close a custom snack-bar that was opened via `openFromComponent`, from within the component itself, you can inject the `MatSnackBarRef`.

```typescript
snackBarRef.afterDismissed().subscribe(() => {
  console.log('The snack-bar was dismissed');
});


snackBarRef.onAction().subscribe(() => {
  console.log('The snack-bar action was triggered!');
});

snackBarRef.dismiss();
```

##### Dismissal

A snack-bar can be dismissed manually by calling the `dismiss` method on the `MatSnackBarRef`returned from the call to `open`.

Only one snack-bar can ever be opened at one time. If a new snackbar is opened while a previous message is still showing, the older message will be automatically dismissed.

A snack-bar can also be given a duration via the optional configuration object:

```typescript
snackbar.open('Message archived', 'Undo', {
  duration: 3000
});
```

##### Sharing data with a custom snack-bar

You can share data with the custom snack-bar, that you opened via the `openFromComponent`method, by passing it through the `data` property.

```typescript
snackbar.openFromComponent(MessageArchivedComponent, {
  data: 'some data'
});

```

To access the data in your component, you have to use the `MAT_SNACK_BAR_DATA` injection token:

```typescript
import {Component, Inject} from '@angular/core';
import {MAT_SNACK_BAR_DATA} from '@angular/material';

@Component({
  selector: 'your-snack-bar',
  template: 'passed in {{ data }}',
})
export class MessageArchivedComponent {
  constructor(@Inject(MAT_SNACK_BAR_DATA) public data: any) { }
}
```



#### Import the `MatSnackBarModule`



