## Angular Material

| REFERENCES                               |
| ---------------------------------------- |
| [1]: https://material.angular.io/guide/getting-started "Angular Material Getting Started" |
| [2]: https://material.io/guidelines/ "Material Design Guidelines" |

For existing apps, follow these steps to begin using Angular Material.



#### Step 1: Install Angular Material and Angular CDK

###### Node.js command prompt

```bash
> npm install --save @angular/material @angular/cdk
```



#### Step 2: Animations

Some Material components depend on the Angular animations module in order to be able to do more advanced transitions. If you want these animations to work in your app, you have to install the `@angular/animations` module and include the `BrowserAnimationsModule` in your app.

###### Node.js command prompt

```bash
> npm install --save @angular/animations
```

**Note:** `@angular/animations` uses the WebAnimation API that isn't supported by all browsers yet. If you want to support Material component animations in these browsers, you'll have to [include a polyfill](https://github.com/web-animations/web-animations-js).

###### _NOTE:_ Any component { component_name }.module.ts file

```javascript
import {BrowserAnimationsModule} from '@angular/platform-browser/animations';

@NgModule({
  ...
  imports: [BrowserAnimationsModule],
  ...
})
export class PizzaPartyAppModule { }
```

If you don't want to add another dependency to your project, you can use the `NoopAnimationsModule`.

###### _NOTE:_ Any component { component_name }.module.ts file

```javascript
import {NoopAnimationsModule} from '@angular/platform-browser/animations';

@NgModule({
  ...
  imports: [NoopAnimationsModule],
  ...
})
export class PizzaPartyAppModule { }
```



#### Step 3: Import the component modules

Import the NgModule for each component you want to use:

###### _NOTE:_ Any component { component_name }.module.ts file

```javascript
import {MatButtonModule, MatCheckboxModule} from '@angular/material';

@NgModule({
  ...
  imports: [MatButtonModule, MatCheckboxModule],
  ...
})
export class PizzaPartyAppModule { }
```

Alternatively, you can create a separate NgModule that imports all of the Angular Material components that you will use in your application. You can then include this module wherever you'd like to use the components.

```javascript
import {MatButtonModule, MatCheckboxModule} from '@angular/material';

@NgModule({
  imports: [MatButtonModule, MatCheckboxModule],
  exports: [MatButtonModule, MatCheckboxModule],
})
export class MyOwnCustomMaterialModule { }
```

Whichever approach you use, be sure to import the Angular Material modules *after* Angular's`BrowserModule`, as the import order matters for NgModules.



#### Step 4: Include a theme

Including a theme is **required** to apply all of the core and theme styles to your application.

To get started with a prebuilt theme, include one of Angular Material's prebuilt themes globally in your application. If you're using the Angular CLI, you can add this to your `styles.css`:

###### src/style.css

```css
@import "~@angular/material/prebuilt-themes/indigo-pink.css";
...
```

If you are not using the Angular CLI, you can include a prebuilt theme via a `<link>` element in your `index.html`.

For more information on theming and instructions on how to create a custom theme, see the [theming guide](https://material.angular.io/guide/theming).



#### Step 5: Gesture Support

Some components (`mat-slide-toggle`, `mat-slider`, `matTooltip`) rely on [HammerJS](http://hammerjs.github.io/) for gestures. In order to get the full feature-set of these components, HammerJS must be loaded into the application.

You can add HammerJS to your application via [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/hammerjs), a CDN (such as the [Google CDN](https://developers.google.com/speed/libraries/#hammerjs)), or served directly from your app.

To install via npm, use the following command:

###### Node.js command prompt

```bash
> npm install --save hammerjs
```

After installing, import it on your app's entry point (e.g. `src/main.ts`).

###### src/main.ts

```javascript
import 'hammerjs';
...
```



#### Step 6 (Optional): Add Material Icons

If you want to use the `mat-icon` component with the official [Material Design Icons](https://material.io/icons/), load the icon font in your `index.html`.

###### src/index.html

```html
<head>
  ...
  <link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/icon?family=Material+Icons" rel="stylesheet">
  ...
</head>
```

For more information on using Material Icons, check out the [Material Icons Guide](https://google.github.io/material-design-icons/).

Note that `mat-icon` supports any font or svg icons; using Material Icons is one of many options.



#### Appendix: Configuring SystemJS

If your project is using SystemJS for module loading, you will need to add `@angular/material` and`@angular/cdk` to the SystemJS configuration.

The `@angular/cdk` package is organized of multiple entry-points. Each of these entry-points must be registered individually with SystemJS.

Here is a example configuration where `@angular/material`, `@angular/cdk/platform` and`@angular/cdk/a11y` are used:

```javascript
System.config({
  // Existing configuration options
  map: {
    // ...
    '@angular/material': 'npm:@angular/material/bundles/material.umd.js',

    // CDK individual packages
    '@angular/cdk/platform': 'npm:@angular/cdk/bundles/cdk-platform.umd.js',
    '@angular/cdk/a11y': 'npm:@angular/cdk/bundles/cdk-a11y.umd.js',
    // ...
  }
});
```

