## NodeJS and Node Package Manager (npm)

[Download NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)

The first thing you will need is a version of NodeJS. This project will be developed with the latest Long-Term Support release 8.9.1. This package also comes with Node Package Manager (npm) version 5.5.1. 

__IMPORTANT:__ You must download the Source Code i.e. `node-v8.9.1.tar.gz`.

| REFERENCES                               |
| ---------------------------------------- |
| More information about NodeJS can be found within their [guides](https://nodejs.org/en/docs/guides/). |
| More information about npm can be found within their [documentations](https://docs.npmjs.com/). |
| [1]: https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-use-npm-to-manage-node-js-packages-on-a-linux-serverHow To Use npm to Manage Node.js Packages on a Linux Server |

Please note, most recommendations online are to install NodeJS via the package manager of your Linux distribution. However, this is not recommended in this case as we required a specific release version. 

This guide will be most relevant for those using a Debian- or Ubuntu-based distribution such as Linux Mint or Ubuntu. If you are using another Linux distribution, please consult your relevant documentations or online support community for help. 



#### Build from source

##### BASH Shell

```bash
$ wget -c https://nodejs.org/dist/v$ver/node-v$ver.tar.gz
$ tar -xzf node-v$ver.tar.gz
$ cd node-v$ver
$ ./configure --prefix=/opt/node && make -j 2 && sudo make install
```


#### Check you had node and npm installed

##### BASH Shell

```bash
$ node -v
v8.9.1
$ npm -v
5.5.1
```



#### Fix npm global permissions 

| REFERENCES                               |
| ---------------------------------------- |
| [2]: https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started/fixing-npm-permissions/ "Fixing npm permissions" |



##### Local vs Global Packages

There are two ways to install npm packages: locally or globally. You choose which kind of installation to use based on how you want to use the package.

If you want to use it as a command line tool, something like the grunt CLI, then you want to install it globally. On the other hand, if you want to depend on the package from your own module using something like Node's `require`, then you want to install locally.

To download packages globally, you simply use the command `npm install -g <package>`.

You may receive an `EACCES` error when you try to install a package globally. This indicates that you do not have permission to write to the directories that npm uses to store global packages and commands.

You can fix this problem using one of three options:

1. Change the permission to npm's default directory.
2. Change npm's default directory to another directory.



##### Option 1: 

```bash
$ npm config get prefix
/opt/node
$ sudo chown -R $(whoami) $(npm config get prefix)/{lib/node_modules,bin,share}
```

This changes the permissions of the sub-folders used by npm and some other tools (`lib/node_modules`, `bin`, and `share`).



##### Option 2:

```bash
$ mkdir ~/.npm-global
$ npm config set prefix '~/.npm-global'
$ echo 'export PATH=~/.npm-global/bin:$PATH' >> ~/.bashrc
$ source ~/.bashrc
```
